Quick Start Guide and CLI installation guide updates for the Cloud CLI (#2119)
strapi/documentation: docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/quick-start.md

Follow the steps below by clicking on the togglable content to read more instructions.

<details style={detailsStyle}>
<summary style={summaryStyle}>Step 1: Run the installation script and create a Strapi Cloud account</summary>

### Step 1: Run the installation script and create a Strapi Cloud account

1. Run the following command in a terminal:

    <Tabs groupId="yarn-npm">

    <TabItem value="yarn" label="Yarn">

    ```bash
    yarn create strapi-app my-strapi-project --quickstart
    ```

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="npm" label="NPM">

    ```bash
    npx create-strapi-app@latest my-strapi-project --quickstart
    ```

    </TabItem>

    </Tabs>

2. The terminal will invite you to create a Strapi Cloud account and start a free, 14-day trial. Ensure `Login/Sign up` is selected in the terminal, or use arrow keys to select it, and press Enter.

> 3. In the new browser tab that opens, ensure the confirmation code is the same as in the terminal and click **Confirm**.<br/>Alternatively, if a browser tab did not automatically open, copy and paste the link from the terminal and type the confirmation code in the form if it's not pre-filled already, then click **Confirm**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the new browser tab that opens, ensure the confirmation code is the same as in the terminal and click **Confirm**.<br/>Alternatively, if a browser tab did not automatically open, copy and paste the link from the terminal and type the confirmation code into the form if it's not pre-filled already, then click **Confirm**.
```

> 3. In the new browser tab that opens, ensure the confirmation code is the same as in the terminal and click **Confirm**.<br/>Alternatively, if a browser tab did not automatically open, copy and paste the link written in the terminal and type the confirmation code in the form if it's not pre-filled already, then click **Confirm**.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In the new browser tab that opens, ensure the confirmation code is the same as in the terminal and click **Confirm**.<br/>Alternatively, if a browser tab did not automatically open, copy and paste the link from the terminal and type the confirmation code in the form if it's not pre-filled already, then click **Confirm**.
```

> 4. Still in the browser tab, click **Continue with GitHub**. If you are not already logged in into GitHub in your current browser session, you might be redirected to the GitHub login page. 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Still in the browser tab, click **Continue with GitHub**. If you are not already logged in into GitHub with your current browser session, you might be redirected to a GitHub login page. 
```

5. Once logged in, the browser will display a "Congratulations, you're all set!" message and you can safely close the browser tab and get back to the terminal.

> <ThemedImage

Author: TODO: produce Dark mode version of the GIF

Reviewer 2: Plus, maybe record it again once it's in production as we can see the `qa-strapi` in the GIF itself

  alt="Login GIF"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/quick-start-guide/qsg-cloud-login.gif',
    dark: '/img/assets/quick-start-guide/qsg-cloud-login.gif',
  }}
/>

As you will see in the terminal, your project is now building locally and also getting ready to be deployed on Strapi Cloud later.

:::info
* The `quick start` installation sets up Strapi with a SQLite database. Other databases and installation options are available (see [CLI installation guide](/dev-docs/installation/cli)).

> * The folder of your project will include a `.strapi-cloud.json` file used to link the local Strapi project on your machine to the Strapi Cloud project.

Reviewer 3: The `.strapi-cloud.json` file is only here if the user has selected "Login/signup" while creating his strapi project or tried to do a `strapi deploy` in the project's folder.

Author: Yes, and that's what we're teaching them to do here 😅 The point of the Quick Start Guide is not to cover all options but to explain what happens when they do what we told them to do :D

> * The folder of your project will include a `.strapi-cloud.json` file that will be used to link the local Strapi project on your machine to the Strapi Cloud project.

Author: ```suggestion
* The folder of your project will include a `.strapi-cloud.json` file used to link the local Strapi project on your machine to the Strapi Cloud project.
```

## ☁️ Part C: Deploy to Strapi Cloud

Now that your beautiful first Strapi project is working locally, it's time for the world to see it live! The most straightforward way to host your project is to use Strapi Cloud: Deploying your project on Strapi Cloud is done with a single command! 🚀

To deploy your project on Strapi Cloud, in your terminal:

1. If the server for your local Strapi project is running, which should be the case if you followed this tutorial so far, press `Ctrl-C` to stop the server.
2. Ensure you are in the folder of your Strapi project (if needed, run for instance `cd my-strapi-project` to reach this folder), and run the following command:

    <Tabs groupId="yarn-npm">

    <TabItem value="yarn" label="Yarn">

      ```sh

>       yarn strapi deploy

Author: Could you please double-check the commands for me? My draft was done using the QA/experimental builds and commands differ. 🙏

Reviewer 3: LGTM

      ```

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="npm" label="NPM">

      ```sh

>       npx @strapi/strapi deploy

Author: Could you please double-check the commands for me? My draft was done using the QA/experimental builds and commands differ. 🙏

Reviewer 2: @nathan-pichon

Reviewer 3: LGTM

Author: OK, @nathan-pichon. 
By "released version" do you mean the CMS-related part?

The Quick Start Guide needs to be absolutely 100% correct when Strapi 'releases' the feature and the docs.

Reviewer 3: Yes I mean CMS part.
It is how it's supposed to look (either yarn strapi deploy, strapi deploy or npx @strapi/strapi deploy), but before the release of the CMS, it will always be something like `@strapi/strapi@experimental-0.0.0.198236496492` or the path to the local file of the CLI.

Author: Ah yes, got it! My question was not clear enough, indeed, sorry for that 😅

I just wanted to know whether it will be run by `npx` (and not with `npm run`) and on which package.

I guess it's also possible we have a `@latest` "tag" maybe? (i.e. `npx run @strapi/strapi@latest`)? 🤔

So, to sum up, commands are:
- for yarn: `yarn strapi deploy`
- for NPM: 
   - "local" run: `npm run strapi deploy` 
   - or direct execution by npx as in `npx @strapi/strapi deploy`
- `strapi deploy` for people who already installed the strapi CLI globally (which [we don't recommend](https://docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/cli), though, but who knows… 🤷 )

Is that correct or should we remove one of the 4 options?

Reviewer 3: Yes @latest should be used I guess; as if they didn't download the latest version of strapi, they won't have the cloud part.

Reviewer 3: And yes, all the commands you have listed should work.

>       npx @strapi/strapi deploy

Author: ```suggestion
      npm run strapi deploy
```

      ```

    </TabItem>

    </Tabs>

> Within a few moments, the script will get your local project hosted on Strapi Cloud. 🚀 

Reviewer 2: the `script` or the `command`? The term is never used before, I was a bit surprised when reading it at first. It's just a comment, feel free to ignore it

Author: To me, the command executes the script, but that's the script that builds/compresses/deploys the project 😊

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within a few moments, your local project will be hosted on Strapi Cloud. 🚀 
```
We could just shorten it like this :)

Once it's done, the terminal will provide you a clickable link that starts with `https://cloud.strapi.io/projects`. Click on the link, or copy and paste it in your browser address bar, to visit the page.

You will see the Strapi Cloud project we've just created, `my-strapi-project`, visible in the Strapi Cloud dashboard. Click the **Visit app** button in the top right corner to access your deployed Strapi project.

<ThemedImage
alt="Visit Strapi Cloud App GIF"
sources={{
  light: '/img/assets/quick-start-guide/qsg-visit-cloud-app.gif',
  dark: '/img/assets/quick-start-guide/qsg-visit-cloud-app_DARK.gif',
}}
/>

:::callout 🥳 CONGRATULATIONS!  
Now your project is hosted on Strapi Cloud and accessible online. You can learn more about Strapi Cloud by reading [its dedicated documentation](/cloud/intro) or proceed to part D to log in into your online Strapi project and add your first data from there.
:::

:::tip

> Feel free to play with the Content-Type Builder even further and add more fields to your content-types or create new content-types. Anytime you make such changes, deploy them again on Strapi Cloud, by simply running the appropriate `deploy` command, and see your hosted project updated within a few minutes. Magical, isn't it? 🪄

Author: ```suggestion
Feel free to play with the Content-Type Builder even further and add more fields to your content-types or create new content-types. Anytime you make such changes, deploy them again on Strapi Cloud, by running the appropriate `deploy` command, and see your hosted project updated within a few minutes. Magical, isn't it? 🪄
```
